---
layout: post
title: Why Use Go?
categories: [golang]
tags: [go, golang, programming]
fullview: false
comments: true
---

Since Go is a relatively new programming language, I thought I'd take a moment to talk about why you might want to choose Go as a language in which to program. For me, when I was looking at whether or not to use Go, one of the strongest arguments which stood out to me is that Go has amazing credentials. Go was created at Google, which to me is one of the greatest, if not the greatest, software engineering firm to have ever existed. It was also created by some luminaries in computer science. So Google was hitting a wall with all current modern programming languages.

What Google wanted to do, there were no programming languages out there which could do it, and so Google created a new programming language, and that language is Go, so that they could do the things they wanted to accomplish. You can learn about Google's reasons for creating the Go programming language by going to golang.org, and then once you're here, click on Documents, and then inside Documents there's a Frequently Asked Questions. When you click on Frequently Asked Questions, you'll find all of these right here.

And so these questions right here, these are the main things here which talk about why Google created a new programming language. So why are you creating a new language? What is the purpose of the project? What is the status of the project? And what are the guiding principles in the design? So one thing which is interesting right here is looking at the dates for when Go was created and released. So Go started in 2007, it was released as an open source project in 2009, and then version one was released in 2012.

So Go is a really young language. It's only four years old at the time at which I'm recording this video. If we compare that to other languages, C is roughly 43 years old, C++ is about 32 years old, Ruby is 20 years old, and JavaScript is also 20 years old. So Go is only four years old, but again, like I said, the main reason for me, the most influential reason that influenced me to choose Go, is that Go was created at Google by these luminaries in computer science.

So to create Go, Google enlisted the help of Ken Thompson, Rob Pike, and Robert Griesemer, and these are some of the same individuals who helped create the C programming language, UNIX, and UTF-8. That really made me stop and take notice. I was like, "Woah, the same people who created C, "helped create C, UNIX, and UTF-8 "have now created a new programming language?" That was a programming language I wanted to know about. And then as I learned more about Go, I really liked what I learned. It's performant, it really takes advantage of multiple cores, it does concurrency natively, it's compiled, it works in a network-distributed environment, has clean syntax, it's a powerful standard library, so it's a low-level language with a really powerful standard library, it's garbage collected, it's portable in that it will compile on many different operating systems, too many different operating systems.

Of course it's backed by Google, and it's open source. So all those reasons made me very interested in Go, and those are the reasons that ultimately led me to choosing it. Another question which I asked myself when looking at Go was, are there any other people out there using the language? And you could go to Google, and you could search for companies using Go, and one of the links which will come up is a link to this repo right here: github.com/golang/go/wiki/GoUsers. And at this repo, you can see many of the different names of the companies using Go, and there's some really big names on the list.

You can take a look at that list on your own time. So when I was looking at whether or not I wanted to use Go, one question I had for it was, is it any good? And just looking at its credentials, for me the answer was, it's got amazing credentials, I'm definitely interested, and as I've learned more about it, I've been very impressed by it. The other question I had is, are other people using Go? And when I saw the different people who are using Go, of course that list has grown since I started, I was also very impressed by all the different companies that were already using Go.

And the third one was, would there be any jobs out there for my students? And I'm happy to say that it's been really rewarding for me to see some of my students who haven't been studying Go for very long, having companies inquire with them, "Hey we saw your code on github, "and we like that you're into Go. "We'd like to talk with you." So those are some of the reasons I looked at when choosing Go. I hope those reasons are helpful to you in making your own decision about whether or not Go is something you want to invest in more deeply.
